This lecture will be about node maintenance.
It is the node controller that is responsible for managing the node objects it assigns IP space to the node
when a new node is launched.
It keeps a node list up to date with the available machines.
The Node Controller is also monitoring the health of the node.
If a node is unhealthy it gets deleted. Pods running unhealthy nodes will get rescheduled.
When adding a new node.
The kubelet will attempt to register itself.
This is called self-registration and is a default behavior.
You can do manual registration, but self-registration is obviously more handy.
It allows you to easily add more nodes to the cluster without making API changes yourself.
A new node object is automatically created with the metadata, name, IP hostname, and labels.
For instance, the cloud region, availability zone, and instance size. A node also has a node condition,
for instance, it can be Ready, OutOfDisk, when the disk is full.
When you want to decommission a node you want to do it gracefully.
You just don't want to shut it down immediately.
You want to instruct Kubernetes to move first all the running away from it.
So, you drain a node before you shut it down or take it out of the cluster. To drain a node
you can use the following command, "kubectl drain" and the node name, it can also pass a "--grace-period".
So, a period that it will take to, to gracefully be decommissioned. If the node runs pods not managed by
a controller like replication controller or a replication set.
But if it's just a single pod then you need to force it, because those pods will then be lost.
In the next short demo
I will show you how to drain works.